To take advantage of our products provider, let's for example go to the product detail widget, the product
detail screen where we also need product data and there I get the product ID.
Now thanks to us providing our products up here,
our products object,
we can, since product detail screen is of course also a child of the ChangeNotifierProvider here,
we can tap into our provider data here as well.
So here where I get my product ID, I can also use provider of, now use the angled brackets to be clear
that I'm interested in an instance of the products class and therefore, let's of course add the
import here at the top, import from providers/products.dart and then forward the context which is our
communication channels so to say to use provider, I also need to import the provider package.
So let's import package/provider/provider.dart and with that provider import added,
now here we actually can get access to our products data as well and we can now find a product with
that ID there.
We can simply chain another method because this here gives us access to the whole products object,
we know we get items there and on the items, if I want to find one with a specific ID, I can get the
firstWhere a specific condition is met, that condition is expressed as a function, where we get every
item, so every product in our case here and then I want to return true
if that ID of the product I'm looking at is equal to the product ID I got here through my route. With
that, I know which product was loaded,
so here I have my loaded product in the end and now I can use that loaded product title here to output
that title and hence now if I tap on a product here, we see the right title in the appBar. So this is
how easy you can now use your centrally managed data and tap into it.
Now actually here however, we can improve two things.
One of the things is that we want to move as much logic as possible out of our widgets into, for example,
our provider class here.
So this filtering for ID here would be better done
inside of that class where we can of course simply add a new method. We can add a method which returns
a product in the end, which I'll name find by ID and in there, I want to get an ID as an input, as an
argument but then I return _items firstWhere with my logic which I just defined before, where
I compare the ID of each product to the ID I'm getting into an argument.
So therefore, this will return an item which it identified and the heavy lifting,
the core logic is hidden away here in my provider class and my widget can therefore stay pretty lean
here on the products object I am getting from my provider, I can simply call find by ID, forward that
product ID and we're done
and now this is a bit leaner here and which is something you generally want to have. You want to have lean
widgets and have your logic somewhere else in the app,
like here in the provider class. Now in the product detail screen, there is another thing we can improve
and that is here. With that provider of thing,
I mentioned that I set up a listener which reruns this build method whenever products change.
Now you could argue that here on the product detail screen, there is little that could change about
products which needs this widget to rebuild,
maybe we added a new product somewhere else in the app.
Well that shouldn't impact this screen
if it's still somehow visible and can be seen by the user. So I don't really want to rebuild this widget
when my data changes here,
instead I just want to tap into my data here one time when this screen is built for the first time and
never really update whenever something changes
and for that, this of method here on provider gives you a special argument, the listen argument which
you can set to false. Now the default is true and if it is set to true which you don't need to do because
it's the default, then the build method of the widget in which you're using provider of will rerun
whenever the provided object,
so in this case, the products object changed, the object we're providing here.
So if this would change or the data in there would change,
so if we call notifyListeners in there, then all widgets that use provider of would rebuild. With listen
false, this widget here will not rebuild if notifyListeners is called because it's not set up as
an active listener and that of course is something you should do if you only need data one time, you
just want to get data from your global data storage but you're not interested in updates, then you don't
need to listen.
Of course, it's a different thing here in the products grid, there
I want to rebuild my grid when I have a new product or when my products change in some way.
So here, I definitely don't want to set listen to false but I want to listen to changes. With this, we
started working with the providers package and we were using our providers package, at least a little
bit already,
thus far however, only for getting some dummy data of course.
Let's next manage the favorite status of products because that's something where the provider package
can help us as well.